Andrew Yang's Universal basic income is
a proposed reform to government benefits
I think that's the first clarification
that's necessary for any discussion of
this policy proposal and what it means
in terms of poverty social inequality
social justice whatever you want to do
to try to sell or oversell this policy
you have to recognize that what it is
very fundamentally is a reform to food
stamps a reform to social benefits and
many many people since Milton Friedman
I'm not saying Milton Freeman was the
first but especially since Milton
Friedman popularized it many many people
have suggested that government
intervention to help the poor would be
made more effective if you simplified it
and just gave poor people cash so stop
giving them in government benefits like
food stamps stop involving them in
complex programs the lot of strings
attached that have distorting effects in
the economy and limit the choices they
can make and make it hard for them to
relocate from one place to another
people who say keep it simple stupid
what the poor need is money so therefore
the government should give them money
and then they argue in terms of
efficiency or positive outcomes you're
better off scrapping getting rid of a
whole complex bureaucracy of helping the
poor and just help the poor by handing
them cash so that case can still be made
the Cure is only going to be good
relative to the illness if you live in a
country that is unbelievably corrupt
where the government programs
interviewed help the poor are opaque and
inefficient and difficult to access
there are serious problems that the
worse those problems are the more
appealing the option will be of
abolishing them and replacing them with
tax now I think there are probably some
countries in Europe that would say no we
have really wonderful programs here that
help the poor and this just isn't true
it would be much worse for the poor if
we got rid of these programs and just
handed them cash however whether you're
looking at first world countries or
third world countries you could indeed
have examples where the way the
government is helping the poor is so
counter product
so corrupt so bad in various ways that
it would better to replace them Akash so
that's the kind of minimalist
underselling of the program where all
you say is hey this is a way of
reforming social services for the poor
this is a way of reforming food stamps
and other benefits so that basically
you're putting cash in people's pockets
and letting them make the decisions but
how they're gonna spend that cash to try
to improve their lives whether that's to
get out of poverty or go back to school
or whatever it is they're gonna do um
however the policy is being oversold is
being presented as if this is an onion
untested route to social justice greater
economic equality the uplifting of the
downtrodden class is the world and as if
this is preparing humanity for
transition to a troubling new future in
which robots owned by a smaller and
smaller number of multi-millionaire
capitalists control more and more of the
economy so the scaremongering tactics
here is that somehow we now live in a
technologically accelerated age and in
this new age unlike the past there is a
natural tendency for power and wealth to
be accumulated in the hands of a small
number of people who do not rely on many
employees do not rely on mass employment
and then those people just get richer
and richer and everyone else is just
paying a portion of their income of
these people every time they make a
purchase on Amazon some of that money is
going to the master of robots and the
robots scurry around the warehouse and
you know the people buying these things
are endlessly enriching this elite class
of technologically enabled the rest of
your hats what if you want to say yeah
and supposedly this scenario is going to
be cured by handing out $1,000 a month
to every man woman and child in America
well gee that sounds like a really
complex problem with a suspiciously
simple solution I'll tell you something
else too this is a terrible example of
new
thinking the problem is not new the
problem has been with us since Aristotle
there was a time on this channel when
people used to joke every time you
mentions Cambodia take a shot of whiskey
every time he mentions Laos take a drink
of beer these days you could have a
drinking game
where you got to take a shot of whiskey
every time I mention Aristotle I do
recommend reading Aristotle I do not
recommend drinking alcohol I'm a
teetotaler I'm against all my dollar and
drugs but hey Aristotle
I am NOT just bitching him for the sake
of it I genuinely and sincerely feel
that Aristotle's politics in Aristotle's
constitution of athens work like that
it's really meaningful it really
prefigures the questions and the even
within that era ancient Greece they even
tested out some of the possible answers
to the problems we're still struggling
with today okay
so we're going to talk about poverty
we're going to talk about government
inventions to alleviate poverty we're
going to talk about social inequality
and I'm gonna talk about racism briefly
because it helps to illustrate this same
problem that existed since Aristotle in
ancient Athens okay Canada was colonized
by Europeans genocide 'el slave trading
Europeans showed up and displaced the
native people some of them were enslaved
some of them were forced onto
reservations they took the land and this
is now much mythified and much
celebrated there was a period of time in
which white European conquistadors gave
the land away for free things would be
very different today if they had given
the land back to the native people that
conquered it from but no you literally
signed up to have land given to you by
the government and you had to be
basically a white male European mother
and it was debated it was debated how
narrow the racial standards would be who
who would and who wouldn't be allowed to
apply for this free land I should also
also mention really briefly
Canada only embarked on that
distribution aestethic ology after other
methods failed earlier what they try
were so-called colonisation corporations
that actually wasn't the government's
first method something similar is true
in the United States by the way this
normally comes up in history of slavery
that there were several different models
for how colonization should work and
then the first two or three really
didn't work out at all and then they're
like okay hmm you can grow tobacco and
slave Africans you know if they started
to put together the pieces of what
became you know the model of genocide
all slave trading and export crop based
exporting crops to Europe this
combination of economic factors for how
the continent was was colonized but in
case giving away free land to people son
that happened once right if you were of
the right ethnic group at the right time
in history you got land given to you and
more recently
if you were of the right ethnic group
and you showed up you had the chance to
to buy land at low low low prices
centuries go by and guess what the
descendants of these families still
owned land they're still receiving rent
some of that land is now worth billions
of dollars and regardless of the the
hypothetical value of the land if you
sell it the land is generating income
year after year after year through rent
now the problem of rent rents basically
all economic textbooks will say rent is
irrational rent is economically
irrational I'm not gonna digress into
saying what that means if you have an
apartment building on a small piece of
land you're basically looking at
technology amplifying a problem that
already existed in ancient Athens in
ancient Greece when Aristotle was alive
okay arbitrarily a small number of
people on land there they're making
money from the land whether that's rent
or farming or through something else but
in our times rent it's really rent
that's the terrifying technology here
not robots no matter what happens the
economy those people continue to get
richer and richer
the rent ears the rent collectors
continue to get wealthier and wealthier
and the people who pay the rent they may
be the poor getting poorer they may you
may have this you know classical
formulation of the rich get richer the
poor get poorer they may be successful
middle-class people who enjoy their
whole life they may not even complain
about the rent but nevertheless a
portion of their income every month is
devoted to making the same wealthy
aristocratic class wealthier and
wealthier forever food stamps will not
change this pattern offering people a
cheaper admission to university offering
them scholarships will not change this
pattern giving people $1,000 a month
Andrew Yang's universal basic income
will not change this pattern if you live
in Western Canada who do you pay rent to
not the indigenous people what with that
myriad government interventions to try
to help are genuinely poor genuinely
impressed genuinely downtrodden
indigenous people a lot of government
money going to them mysteriously the
indigenous people never end up becoming
the aristocrats again they never end up
becoming the landowners you never end up
redistributing the ownership of the land
right so already in ancient Athens this
was obvious to Aristotle that the most
fundamental problem of democracy was
that if you let the free market operate
over time a small number of families
would own all of the most valuable land
whether the system started that way or
whether it ended up that way after some
number of decades or centuries right
they would then be collecting rent from
pretty much everybody else the rich and
the poor it can have wealthy people
paying rent middle-class people paying
rent poor people everyone's paying rent
not everyone is collecting rent and then
you get in effect all of the defects of
aristocracy oligarchy plutocracy
ever you want to say and you have the
illusion of opportunity within this
system you know you can say to people
who are in the disadvantaged ethnic
group you could say to someone today
whose Kree are a Jib way or den a or
mohawk someone who's an indigenous
person in canada you can say to them
that they have the opportunity to become
a dentist and that's true it's like okay
today you have educational opportunities
you have scholarships you have maybe
some government money being put into
this say hey look you can become a
dentist and you can earn a good living
that's true however when you just take a
step back and look at the society as a
whole when you look at the fundamental
inequality and injustice that that
society isn't based on they're two
different things but they're related
there's a question of injustice here
there's also a question of inequality
you have this aristocracy that for no
good reason is remaining and it's not
just static it's not just remaining
clippo it's becoming more and more
powerful over time regardless of how
many people manage to lift themselves up
out of poverty by becoming a dentist
okay
now yes there is some economic
instability within capitalism some small
number of poor people become dentists
some small number of multi billionaires
lose all their money because they make a
bad choice of the stock market or they
become a cocaine addicts I'm gonna
invest and then once in a while some
poor person who became a dentist took
his money as a dentist and put it into
real estate and ends up owning a whole
bunch of condominium towers starts
charging rents to people owns owns
apartment goings and then they join that
rentier class right so it is true it is
not a completely static aristocracy
however you have to recognize even if
there are extraordinary individuals who
are extraordinary in either their upward
mobility or their downward mobility the
same pattern perpetuates itself forever
and ever unless and until you have
political decisions you have
government policies or you have a
revolution that intentionally disrupts
and destroys that pattern to replace it
with something else replaced with
something better
and never forget aristocracy is a social
system also had upward mobility
aristocracy also had downward mobility
there were aristocrats who went bankrupt
who ended up poor and there were poor
people who ended up crawling their way
to the top of the pile in aristocracy if
you read primary source historical
documents they're full of examples of
that I mean everyone likes to write
stories about you know the self-made man
even if it's rare within every society
that has a massive literary corpus you
get recorded examples of how people
managed to get rich how people managed
to get aristocratic titles whether
through industry war even scientific
inventions you know what about doing an
extraordinary service to the king
etc etc there were there were forms of
upward social mobility in the medieval
world and in every aristocracy that I
know of Andrew Yang's proposal
ultimately shows the futility of
government subvention the misleading
thing here is the concept of help if you
hand out a thousand dollars per month to
all the poor people do you help the poor
yes if you provide cheap or free
university education do you help the
poor yes even in the United States is
very significant employment in the
military helps the poor it's probably
the single most successful quote/unquote
socialist policy within the United
States is actually the u.s. military and
all the healthcare benefits
poor people get with that US military is
a way out of poverty for for many many
people in the United States of America
[Music]
unfortunately he helped as such is
irrelevant to the more fundamental
question that's raised by Aristotle who
is to rule and who is to be ruled in
this society okay
we live in a society now which has been
utterly lacking in the type of
disruption the type of redistribution of
land that Aristotle regarded as an
integral part of every polity every
political community as a fundamental
obligation of democracy to redistribute
wealth to prevent its accumulation in
fewer and fewer hands and I'd point out
that this is not an end in itself it's
not the case that equality is desirable
simply for abstract or arithmetic
reasons okay this kind of equality which
is never going to be an absolute acquire
going to be a perfect equality this
redistributionist approach to to coping
with extreme inequality the the
fundamental reason for it is that
arbitrary and irrational wealth leads to
arbitrary and irrational power and
arbitrary and irrational powerlessness
in society it leads to a kind of
constant injustice that the society as a
whole must inevitably want to rebel
against that everyone even comfortable
middle class people must in some way
suffer to bear ok in the United States
of America since the abolition of
slavery
you never redistributed land you know
the famous phrase they never gave the
African Americans 40 acres and a mule if
you want the native people of Canada to
really have an equal chance with the
white wealthy people of Canada you would
have to actually reaches tribute the
land to them you would actually have to
give them ownership of land and not in
remote in worthless areas that were
pushed out onto because the white people
took all the land that had gold and all
the land that was good for farming and
all the land oh they wanted to build
cities on you'd have to give them
ownership of land in downtown Toronto
and down
Vancouver and actually have them enter
into the the free market on that basis
as landlords not as tenants paying rent
and from my perspective race and
ethnicity is ultimately meaningless it
just provides a marker for the extent to
which these irrational and arbitrary
inequalities persist over time one of
the fundamental reasons for the French
Revolution I'm talking about first
French Revolution 1789 was that people
ceased to regard as virtuous the excuses
made for aristocracy they ceased to
think it was a wonderful thing to be
ruled over by people whose ancestors
happen to fight on the right side of a
war that nobody could now remember 300
years earlier okay the idea of having a
perpetual endowment of superior
political rights on the basis of
military heroism that your
great-great-grandfather might have been
responsible for that was no longer a
morally coherent basis for the society
they lived in and everyone wanted to
rebelled against it by the same token
the idea that extraordinary political
privilege extraordinary political power
should rest in the hands of someone
because their great grand grandfather
showed up at the right time to buy a
corn field that today has a condominium
tower on it in downtown Vancouver tell
Metro the fact that you happen to be a
blood descendent of someone who was in
the right place at the right time to buy
a land when it was worthless Linda today
is worth billions of dollars and
generates millions of dollars in rent
year after year after year again rents
being fundamentally economically
irrational rent that fundamentally makes
the rest of society poorer and makes a
tiny elite richer and richer in a sense
that is even more
incoherent than the excuses for
aristocracy in ages gone by